OK soon this video we're going to look at what Cleary's all the different types of queries within my
school.
So so carry all queries nested within the queries and sometimes queries are referred to as nested queries.
So we can see an example where we have to select statements within one query.
So we have select Id start time from screenings where film ID is in select ID from films where length
man is greater than 120.
So we have a query here.
We have to select ID from films where length man is greater than 120.
And this is referred to as the in a query and then we have the outer query which is select Id start
time from screenings where film my day is in the inquiry.
So some queries can be used in a select update or delete query.
But in this section we're just going to be looking at queries within select statements on the nested
query or in a query can be in the WHERE clause of a select statement or it can come off to the from
in a select statement.
And there are two types of query is non correlated queries and there's correlated so queries.
So in non related queries the query can run independently of the outer query.
So if we have a look at this example again we have all in a query which is select ID from films where
length man is greater than 120.
And then we have our outer query which is select Id start time from screenings where film ID is in the
query.
So if we look at the in a query select ID from Filene's where length man is greater than 120.
We can actually run this independently of the outer query so we don't need the outer query for us to
be able to run this in a query and in non correlated so queries the query runs first and it only runs
once and it produces a set of results which are then used by the outer query.
So this in a query selects ID from films where length man is greater than one hundred and twenty is
going to produce a set of results is going to return a set of ideas where the film's length is greater
than one hundred and twenty minutes and then the outer query is going to take this Rizo and is going
to return the ID and the start time from screenings where the film ID is in the results from the in
the query.
But for co-related queries the query can run independently of the outer query and that's because the
query is using data from the outer query.
So if we have a look at the example here in the outer query we have select screening ID customer ID
from bookings b so we're selecting two columns from the bookings table in the outer query and then in
the in the query we're saying select count see ID from the reserved seat table.
When booking ID is the queue to be to ID.
So we're referring to the bookings table in the outer query within in a query.
So if we run in a query independently of the query itself you can return an error because it's not going
to know what B ID is because B to ID only makes sense if we've got the outer query and correlated sub
queries the query runs for every row in the outer query.
So the query here is going to select screening ID and custom ID from the bookings table.
So it's going to return a lot of writers are you for each screening idea and customer ID and the bookings
table and then the query is going to run for every single row.
The outer query returns.
So in a correlated subquery the in the query runs multiple times.
So now we know the basics of sub queries.
Let's take a look at some examples of each run in my school work bench.